demos/ros_examples/README.md, before:

# `ros_examples` demonstration scripts

## Table of contents:
* [Running a demo script](#running-demonstration-scripts)
* [Task Space control loop example](#task_space_control_loop)

## Running demonstration scripts
This package contains the same control loop examples as in [`control_loop_examples`](../control_loop_examples) demos
folder, but adapted for usage in a ROS environment.
The whole folder is a fully functional ROS package that can be directly copied in a ROS workspace.
There is also a provided `Dockerfile` that encapsulates the whole in a containerized ROS environment.
Running the `run-demo.sh` script opens an interactive container with the ROS environment already setup for running
the demonstration scripts.

In order to run the demonstrations, a `roscore` needs to be running.
One can be started from the interactive container.
Running the scripts uses ROS commands, e.g. to run the `task_space_control_loop` script:

```console
rosrun ros_examples task_space_control_loop
```

You can also directly use the launchfile that starts any requirement for the demo to run correctly:

```console
rolaunch ros_examples task_space_control_loop.launch
```

## `task_space_control_loop`
* **Showcased libraries:** `state_representation`, `dynamical_systems`

This simple demonstration shows how to create a control loop with a `Linear` dynamical system in task space (`CartesianState`).
It moves a pose towards a random attractor in a `100Hz` control loop.
At each control step, the scripts publishes the current and attractor poses using ROS `tf` for a visualization in `rviz`.

## `joint_space_velocity_control`
* **Showcased libraries:** `state_representation`, `dynamical_systems`, `robot_model`

This demonstration shows how to create a control loop with a `Linear` dynamical system in task space (`CartesianState`) 
and compute forward kinematics and inverse velocity with a robot `Model`. A ROS subscriber is set up to receive the joint 
state from the `/joint_states` topic.
The robot moves a pose towards a random attractor in a `500Hz` control loop.
At each control step, the scripts publishes the desired joint velocity to the `/velocity_controller/command`.

To run this script and visualize the robot, follow the steps below to launch a `PyBullet` simulation with a ROS interface:
```bash
# in a directory of your choice (preferably not in the control_libraries directory)
git clone https://github.com/domire8/pybullet_ros.git
cd pybullet_ros/docker
bash build-run.sh # this will build a docker image and spin up a container
# inside the container
roslaunch pybullet_ros franka.launch
```

Commit message:

Add description to launch demo node

demos/ros_examples/README.md, after:

# `ros_examples` demonstration scripts

## Table of contents:
* [Running a demo script](#running-demonstration-scripts)
* [Task Space control loop example](#task_space_control_loop)

## Running demonstration scripts
This package contains the same control loop examples as in [`control_loop_examples`](../control_loop_examples) demos
folder, but adapted for usage in a ROS environment.
The whole folder is a fully functional ROS package that can be directly copied in a ROS workspace.
There is also a provided `Dockerfile` that encapsulates the whole in a containerized ROS environment.
Running the `run-demo.sh` script opens an interactive container with the ROS environment already setup for running
the demonstration scripts.

In order to run the demonstrations, a `roscore` needs to be running.
One can be started from the interactive container.
Running the scripts uses ROS commands, e.g. to run the `task_space_control_loop` script:

```console
rosrun ros_examples task_space_control_loop
```

You can also directly use the launchfile that starts any requirement for the demo to run correctly:

```console
rolaunch ros_examples task_space_control_loop.launch
```

## `task_space_control_loop`
* **Showcased libraries:** `state_representation`, `dynamical_systems`

This simple demonstration shows how to create a control loop with a `Linear` dynamical system in task space (`CartesianState`).
It moves a pose towards a random attractor in a `100Hz` control loop.
At each control step, the scripts publishes the current and attractor poses using ROS `tf` for a visualization in `rviz`.

## `joint_space_velocity_control`
* **Showcased libraries:** `state_representation`, `dynamical_systems`, `robot_model`

This demonstration shows how to create a control loop with a `Linear` dynamical system in task space (`CartesianState`) 
and compute forward kinematics and inverse velocity with a robot `Model`. A ROS subscriber is set up to receive the joint 
state from the `/joint_states` topic.
The robot moves a pose towards a random attractor in a `500Hz` control loop.
At each control step, the scripts publishes the desired joint velocity to the `/velocity_controller/command`.

To run this script and visualize the robot, follow the steps below to launch a `PyBullet` simulation with a ROS interface:

- in a terminal, run:
    ```bash
    cd control_libraries/demos/ros_examples
    bash run-demo.sh # this will build a docker image and spin up a container
    # inside the container
    roslaunch ros_examples joint_space_velocity_control.launch
    ```
- in a second terminal, run:
    ```bash
    # in a directory of your choice (preferably not in the control_libraries directory)
    git clone https://github.com/domire8/pybullet_ros.git
    cd pybullet_ros/docker
    bash build-run.sh # this will build a docker image and spin up a container
    # inside the container
    roslaunch pybullet_ros franka.launch
    ```
